# Predicting-suicide-in-postpartum-depression-patients
We analyzed specific parameters such as age, patient feelings, and problems with attachment to the newborn from a postpartum depression dataset collected through a hospital questionnaire and published on Kaggle. Our objective was to develop accurate machine learning models that can identify which patients are most at risk of suicide.

The postpartum depression data set was collected through a questionnaire about postpartum depression for new mothers by a medical hospital and published in Kaggle.
Dataset link: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/parvezalmuqtadir2348/postpartum-depression

However, before constructing a supervised learning classifier, we need to understand the data comprehensively, detect any patterns and correlations among variables and pre-process data to handle any missing values all these steps are integral components of exploratory data analysis (EDA). The next point to consider is selecting an appropriate classifier for the problem. Our objective is binary classification, to predict whether the woman is at risk of suicide or not, so we have chosen to use a decision tree classifier, as part of EDA, and before the training phase, we need to transform data from categorical to numerical format using techniques such as one-hot encoding, as a decision tree can handle only numerical values, in addition to split data into train and test data to evaluate the model performance. Moreover, after training the classifier using random hyperparameters, we then try to fine-tune them by using RandomizedSearchCV to identify the best hyperparameters for optimal model performance. We use different evaluation matrices to measure model performance as F1 score, precision, and recall. Finally,we build an advanced model to compare the performance of the decision tree against it.
